refine docs for regexp tree dictionary (#49902)
ClickHouse/ClickHouse: docs/en/sql-reference/dictionaries/index.md

└─────────────────────────────────┴───────┘
```

## RegExpTree Dictionary {#regexp-tree-dictionary}

> RegExpTree Dictionary is designed to store multiple regular expressions in a dictionary, and query if a string could match one or multiple regular expressions. In some senarioes, for example, User Agent Parser, this data structure is very useful. We can use it in both local and cloud environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RegExpTree Dictionary is designed to store multiple regular expressions in a dictionary, and query if a string could match one or multiple regular expressions. In some scenarios, for example, User Agent Parser, this data structure is very useful. We can use it in both local and cloud environments.
```

...
```

> The dictionary source `YAMLRegExpTree` represents the structure of a Regexp Tree. For example:

Author: no, we also support Clickhouse Table Source as well. Even in local version.

      version: '10'
```

> This config consists of a list of RegExpTree nodes. Each node has following structure:

Author: hmmmmmmmmm.... it's a typo :D

- **regexp** means the regular expression of this node.

> - **user defined attributions** is a list of dictionary attributions defined in the dictionary structure. In this case, we have two attributions: `name` and `version`. The first nodes have both attributions. The second node only has `name` attribution, because the `version` is defined in the children nodes.

Reviewer 2: The rest of the document talks about "attributes". The term "attribution" occurs nowhere else. Could we just use "attributes"?

> - **user defined attributions** is a list of dictionary attributions defined in the dictionary structure. In this case, we have two attributions: `name` and `version`. The first nodes have both attributions. The second node only has `name` attribution, because the `version` is defined in the children nodes.

Author: The answer is: `versions` is not an attribute, it is `children nodes`. Attributes must appear in dictionary defination. The Yaml node could have:

- regexp
- attribute(s) (`name` and `version` in this case)
- children nodes (`versions` in this case)

I know it's confusting, but I have tried my best. Any suggestions?

> - **user defined attributions** is a list of dictionary attributions defined in the dictionary structure. In this case, we have two attributions: `name` and `version`. The first nodes have both attributions. The second node only has `name` attribution, because the `version` is defined in the children nodes.

Reviewer 2: I rewrote the docs a bit. Should be fine now.

>   - The value of an attribution could contain a **back reference** which refers to a capture group of the matched regular expression. Reference number ranges from 1 to 9 and writes as `$1` or `\1`. During the query execution, the back reference in the value will be replaced by the matched capture group.

Author: Right now it's now allowed. I wonder if users need it.

>   - The value of an attribution could contain a **back reference** which refers to a capture group of the matched regular expression. Reference number ranges from 1 to 9 and writes as `$1` or `\1`. During the query execution, the back reference in the value will be replaced by the matched capture group.

Reviewer 2: Probably not :-)

Result:

```text
┌─dictGet('regexp_dict', ('name', 'version'), '31/tclwebkit1024')─┐
│ ('Andriod','12')                                                │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

Explain:

> In this case, we match the regular expression `\d+/tclwebkit(?:\d+[\.\d]*)` in the first layer, so the dictionary will continue to look into the children nodes in the second layer and find it matches `3[12]/tclwebkit`. As a result, the value of `name` is `Andriod` defined in the first layer and the value of `version` is `12` defined in the second layer.

Reviewer 2: "in the first layer" --> "in the top layer's second node"

Reviewer 2: Wrong (?) spelling "Andriod" pops up again.

### Use RegExpTree Dictionary on cloud

> We have shown how RegExpTree work in the local enviroument, but we cannot use `YAMLRegExpTree` on cloud. If we have a local yaml file, we can use this file to create RegExpTree Dictionary in the local enviroment, then dump this dictionary to a csv file by `dictionary` table function and [INTO OUTFILE](../../statements/select/into-outfile.md) clause.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have shown how RegExpTree work in the local environment, but we cannot use `YAMLRegExpTree` in the cloud. If we have a local yaml file, we can use this file to create RegExpTree Dictionary in the local environment, then dump this dictionary to a csv file by the `dictionary` table function and [INTO OUTFILE](../../statements/select/into-outfile.md) clause.
```

The content of csv file is:

```text
1,0,"Linux/(\d+[\.\d]*).+tlinux","['version','name']","['\\1','TencentOS']"
2,0,"(\d+)/tclwebkit(\d+[\.\d]*)","['comment','version','name']","['test $1 and $2','$1','Andriod']"
3,2,"33/tclwebkit","['version']","['13']"
4,2,"3[12]/tclwebkit","['version']","['12']"
5,2,"3[12]/tclwebkit","['version']","['11']"
6,2,"3[12]/tclwebkit","['version']","['10']"
```

The schema of dumped file is always

- `id UInt64` represents the identify number of the RegexpTree node.
- `parent_id UInt64` represents the id of the parent of a node.
- `regexp String` represents the regular expression string.
- `keys Array(String)` represents the names of user defined attributions.
- `values Array(String)` represents the values of user defined attributions.

On the cloud, we can create a table `regexp_dictionary_source_table` with the above table structure.

```sql
CREATE TABLE regexp_dictionary_source_table
(
    id UInt64,
    parent_id UInt64,
    regexp String,
    keys   Array(String),
    values Array(String)
) ENGINE=Memory;
```

Then update the local CSV by

```bash
clickhouse client \
    --host MY_HOST \
    --secure \
    --password MY_PASSWORD \
    --query "

>     insert into regexp_dictionary_source_table 

Reviewer 2: Cosmetics: Let's write all SQL keywords (INSERT INTO, SELECT, etc.) UPPERCASE.

    select * from input ('id UInt64, parent_id UInt64, regexp String, keys Array(String), values Array(String)') 
    FORMAT CSV" < regexp_dict.csv
```

You can see how to [Insert Local Files](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/integrations/data-ingestion/insert-local-files) for more details. After we initialize the source table, we can create a RegexpTree by table source:

``` sql
create dictionary regexp_dict
(
    regexp String,
    name String,
    version String
PRIMARY KEY(regexp)
SOURCE(CLICKHOUSE(TABLE 'regexp_dictionary_source_table'))
LIFETIME(0)
LAYOUT(regexp_tree);
```

### Use RegexpTree Dictionary as a UA Parser

> With a powerful yaml configure file, we can use RepexpTree dictionary as a UA parser. We support [uap-core](https://github.com/ua-parser/uap-core) and demostrate how to use it in the functional test [02504_regexp_dictionary_ua_parser](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/blob/master/tests/queries/0_stateless/02504_regexp_dictionary_ua_parser.sh)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With a powerful yaml configure file, we can use RepexpTree dictionary as a UA parser. We support [uap-core](https://github.com/ua-parser/uap-core) and demonstrate how to use it in the functional test [02504_regexp_dictionary_ua_parser](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/blob/master/tests/queries/0_stateless/02504_regexp_dictionary_ua_parser.sh)
```

> With a powerful yaml configure file, we can use RepexpTree dictionary as a UA parser. We support [uap-core](https://github.com/ua-parser/uap-core) and demonstrate how to use it in the functional test [02504_regexp_dictionary_ua_parser](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/blob/master/tests/queries/0_stateless/02504_regexp_dictionary_ua_parser.sh)

Reviewer 2: I'd remove section l. 2336ff and move this sentence after l. 2268.
